The Project Gutenberg eBook of Galactic heritage, by Frank Belknap
Long

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Galactic heritage

Author: Frank Belknap Long

Release Date: January 7, 2023 [eBook #69719]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net.

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GALACTIC HERITAGE ***





                           Galactic Heritage

                         By FRANK BELKNAP LONG

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                Thrilling Wonder Stories October 1948.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


He called himself Jim Rush.

No uglier giant had ever come striding in out of the rain to make a
name for himself under the big top. He had the thickest eyebrows I've
ever laid eyes on--and the boniest face.

When you've been in the Carny game as long as I have you don't let
new faces get on your nerves. But Rush was out of this world! When I
looked at him I seemed to be in a dark room, sweating and stumbling
over things. Then the room would vanish, and he'd be sitting on the
platform at my side, his face a big piece of jagged glass glinting in
the sunlight.

It was just my nerves, of course. Just a midget's overheated
imagination. I'm sure he wouldn't have looked that way to Dali. It
didn't last anyway. In his street clothes, and most of the time on the
platform, all he did was scare the living daylights out of me.

But hold on tight now--we're going around a curve! I had him figured
out all wrong. He was the kindest big guy in the world. He was kind to
me, and that meant he'd have been kind to anyone--a stray kitten, a
broken-down short-change artist in an iron lung.

The first time Rush spoke to me the bally talker was adding a foot to
his height and wrapping a tape-measure around his biceps.

"Step in closer, folks! The kiddies want to see him too! That's
it--that's fine! Do you know where this big man was born?"

"The Constellation Cassiopeia," Rush said. "Or the Great Nebula in
Orion!" If he was really smart, he'd keep them guessing!

Coming from Rush, whom I'd taken for an uneducated man, that remark
gave me a jolt. Me, I've read a lot and know as much about the stars as
the average cultured bartender.

I opened my eyes wide. "He's not kidding anybody!" I said.

Rush chuckled. "No, I suppose not."

He looked at me. "Tell me something, Ralph. How do you spend your spare
time? I've often wondered."

My full name is "Tiny" Ralph Moffatt. But I like to be called by my
middle name. I stand three feet two in my stockings, and you don't know
what loneliness is if you've never had to climb on a chair to look
into the eyes of a friend. Chances are, you'll have made the trip for
nothing, for a midget doesn't have many friends.

That's why I answered so quickly. "Read a little," I said. "Go to the
movies in the village. Stand on a crate and shoot pool with Pop Carden."

"How would you like to chew the fat with me some evening?" Rush
asked. "I do a little--well, call it tinkering, in my spare time. I'm
interested in electronics. Know anything about electronics, Ralph?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Did I? I can build the cutest little radio set you'd care to see,
blind-folded, with one arm tied behind me.

"If it's a machine," I said, "I can call the turns on the power source
without looking at it!"

He grinned. "Great, Ralph! Why not make it this evening?"

So we practically shook hands on it, sitting there on the platform,
with the crowd gawking up at us and the bally talker giving us a
frenzied buildup.

When the crowd thinned out after the tent show he gave me his address.
He lived in the village, up two flights of stairs on a crummy street.

"When the landlord saw how big I was he jacked up the rent!" Rush
explained. "Guess he figured my tread would wear holes in the carpet."

"That's a pitch!" I wisecracked. "Me, I ought to get a room for
nothing."

He looked at me gravely. "Don't ever let it get you, Ralph. Your size,
I mean. It's not important."

That made me like him even better.

"I'm getting out of this rig and into my work clothes," Rush said.
"Hungry, Ralph? Like to join me in the pie car?"

I hesitated--then told him I was on a diet. It wasn't true, but I hate
sitting on a stool in the pie car alongside of grown men. The food
display counters are so far out of reach.

"See you at eight!" I promised.

The goose-necks were blazing when I slipped out into the twilight,
straddling a rain trench, and ducking around behind the animal cages
until I was out of sight.

An hour later I was climbing the stairs to his room. I'd dined alone
in my tent, on canned salmon. But nothing could dim the bright glow
that was in me. I like people who tinker--in dirt road garages, and big
laboratories fitted up like a grease monkey's idea of paradise.

I was out of breath when I reached the second floor landing. But I've a
sound heart and it wasn't the climb that started it jumping. It was the
droning.

I was almost at the door of Rush's room when I heard it. It was loud,
very loud, and somehow it scared me. It seemed to come from both inside
and outside my skull, if you know what I mean.

But it was nothing to get worked up about. In the woods at night,
when you're looking up at the stars, you can hear all kinds of eerie
sounds--if you let yourself hear them. Just as if the sky had a life of
its own, a hidden, whispering life, shared by the rocks and the gaunt
trees.

But I wasn't in the woods now.

There was no excuse for what I did. I quickened my stride and walked
right into Rush's room without knocking. I threw the door open
and there he was, standing before a big, bare table littered with
everything in the Little Giant Fact Book of Electronics.

There was a brush yoke, and a four-way switch attached to a fractional
machine which looked as if it could generate all kinds of static
without frying an arc. There was a Bunsen cell setup. That's a primary
electric cell using zinc and carbon electrodes. The right kind of
Bunsen cell will deliver a terrific current.

There was a big, metal eye, threaded at one end, attached to a rod and
holding a crystal chunk of something ruby-colored that glittered in the
loop of the eye. There was a multi-speed motor with inside wiring, and
something that looked like a cuckoo clock perched on an hour-glass.

But I had no time to study the rest of the gadgets, for there was
something in the middle of the table that started my heart jumping
again and narrowed my vision like a vise.

It looked like a little, shriveled monkey. Wires ran from its skull to
a big, gleaming object shaped like a diving bell, and its mouth was
opening and closing as if it were trying desperately to say something.

The droning I'd heard in the hall was coming from the apparatus.

When Rush saw me he smiled quietly, as though he wasn't in the least
put out. He clicked off the apparatus, detached the wires from the
little beast's skull and tucked it under his arm, almost tenderly. It
clung to his sleeve, like a frightened marmoset.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of course! It _was_ a marmoset! I expect scientists use them
whenever they run short of white mice. But they're also Carny
animals--the kiddies love them. I told myself a little wildly that Rush
must have raided the stock cars to get so many of them. There were at
least a dozen marmosets in the room, jumping about in cages.

"There are definite limits to animal intelligence!" Rush said. "Speech,
for instance. This little creature can't talk even now. But I've
learned a lot from him. I'm making real progress!"

"Are you?" I managed to choke out.

Rush made a gesture of apology. "Forgive me, Ralph!" he said. "I didn't
mean to plunge right into the middle of things. But there are certain
things about the brain psychologists won't discuss if they can help it.
It makes ninnies out of them!"

He seemed terribly keyed up. His eyes were shining, and he was staring
at me as though I were the answer to something that had been torturing
him for a month.

"Look, Ralph!" he said. "I know it's asking a lot on the strength of a
short acquaintance. But will you let me adjust this helmet to your head
for a minute or two? It's not dangerous. I've made sure of that!"

So it was a helmet--not a diving bell! I just couldn't picture myself
wearing it, so I'd jumped to a ridiculous conclusion.

I looked him straight in the eye. "You mean--you want me to take the
place of that monkey?" I gulped.

Rush smiled quickly. "Heck no. The monkey couldn't wear it. Its brain
isn't complex enough. It would fit you, though. Will you let me try it
on?"

"For size?" I got out.

He shook his head. "Size has nothing to do with it, Ralph. It's the
complexity of the brain itself." A pleading look came into his eyes.
"It's just that I'm close to something tremendous. It doesn't matter to
me in the way it would matter to Einstein say--or Jeans! It's big in a
different way."

It never occurred to me that he'd take my stunned silence for consent.
Before I could retreat toward the door he'd picked up the helmet and
was fitting it to my head.

It did seem to fit, though it was as heavy as a metal bathtub, or felt
as heavy. It pressed against my skull and weighed me down, so that he
had to help me into a chair, and make some adjustments to enable me to
bear it.

The helmet got still heavier when he stepped swiftly to the table and
turned the juice on. There was a droning, but it didn't seem so loud
now that I was close to it.

I was close to nothing else.

The floor moved, carrying Rush from me, so fast his big body blurred.
The walls were moving too, rushing away from me. The marmosets blurred
inside their cages. Wavered, and turned brittle. Their eyes puffed
up like toy balloons, their bodies splintering, whipping away into
emptiness.

The table vanished in a blaze of light. There was nothing to hold on
to. The chair dissolved under me, but instead of falling I felt myself
plunging forward, straight toward a blazing wall that was swallowing up
everything in the room.

It ceased to be a wall when I passed into it. It became a wrenching and
a tearing that took hardly a second to separate my brain from my body
and hurl me piecemeal into an abyss of howling blackness.

When the howling stopped I decided I'd had some kind of epileptic fit
as a result of excitement.

There was a swaying beneath me, deep, terrifying, as if I were clinging
to the roof of a collapsing building. I could smell the damp earth, and
my face was drenched with sweat and I was clinging to something all
buckled into folds like an old leather harness.

Then the elephant trumpeted.

I let out a yell. I was perched on the neck of the beast, right up
between its ears, clinging to its wrinkled hide. It was raging mad,
swaying to and fro, rattling its leg chains and swinging its trunk
about.

My clothes had vanished along with the helmet.

       *       *       *       *       *

I don't know what saved me. Sheer blind panic, I guess. I just let go
and dropped to the ground, without thinking about it. It was cutting
corners with death, but it seemed only a moment before I was running
through the night, the trumpeting falling away behind me.

I headed straight for my tent, but it wasn't modesty that drove me in
that direction. People who'd be shocked by a midget in the buff would
be scandalized by a baby in its bath. I didn't give a hoot for the
blushes of somebody's maiden aunt--only for my sanity.

My tent was as black as pitch, but I didn't stop to fumble around for
the light switch. I knew exactly where my spare trousers were and--an
old sweater, a pair of shoes.

In my old clothes I looked as tough as a midget can look. Picture a
three-foot pug, ready to climb into the ring with a heavyweight and
start slugging. When the universe reels you're apt to get scared, then
angry. Don't ask me why, but that's the way it is.

I wasn't furious with Rush exactly, but I had to get back my faith in
the reality of the world around me--its solidness. You couldn't pass
through a solid wall and right out into the dark, swaying night!

You just couldn't! I was still telling myself that twenty minutes
later, at the top of the rickety stairs that led to the House that Rush
Built. A house within a house, that opened on blazing emptiness? I had
to make sure.

I wasn't even sure I'd find Rush when I reached his room and flung the
door open. My head was pounding from climbing the stairs so fast again,
and there was a screaming inside me.

What next, little man?

The room hadn't changed at all. Rush was standing before the table,
where I'd left him, and on a chair near the door were my clothes. Every
stitch I'd had on before the universe started reeling. The helmet
rested on the seat of the chair, as though I'd dissolved under it,
allowing it to sink gently to rest on my empty clothes.

When Rush saw me his face lighted up, as though I'd stepped out of
a door in the sky with a lot of blazing jewels in my arms. But his
expression changed when he saw how ill I looked.

There were no mirrors in the room, but I didn't have to see my face to
know how ill I looked.

"Are you all right, Ralph?" he asked, with real concern. "You'd better
tell me exactly what happened. Take your time now. The details are
important."

I told him.

I don't know why, but I never expected he'd burst out laughing. Nothing
about my experience had seemed ludicrous to me, so his reaction came as
a shock.

This is what he said. "You're small, Ralph, and an elephant's back is
quite an expanse of territory to you. It's dead against the law of
averages, but that law stretches sometimes! It's really terribly funny!"

"Is it?" I said, coldly.

The amusement went out of his eyes. "Forgive me for laughing, Ralph.
I didn't really mean to. I owe you an explanation, and I'll try to
give it to you, in one-syllable words."

"That's kind of you!" I said. "The only thing you haven't thrown at me
is the dictionary."

Rush shook his head. "I'm asking you to forgive me, Ralph. You've
helped me, and I'm grateful. You've helped me more than you know!"

The charm was still there, the winning friendliness. I told myself I
was quite mad to trust him, but somehow I couldn't help myself.

"The greatest mysteries are simple things," he said. "Take the human
brain. It has changed a lot and it goes right on changing. But what do
we know about it, really? You can cut away most of the brain and be
none the worse for it. A man can think, act, plan, feel with only a
walnut-sized part of his brain."

Rush nodded. "There's a big, quiet part which he doesn't seem to need.
Some psychologists call it the quiet brain. It does its work without
giving itself away."

"What kind of work?" I asked.

"Extra-sensory work," Rush said. "But telepathy, clairvoyance are just
ground swells in the quiet brain. Just rudimentary stirrings, of no
great importance in themselves. But where there are ground swells there
must be a solid core of something tremendous, something that can move
and shake. And build, Ralph."

       *       *       *       *       *

The big fellow paused long enough to flash me a cheerful smile. Then he
went on.

"I like that word, build. New cells, new bodies even. But I'm after
something more basic than that. You can change the body's structure,
bruise it, burn it with the quiet brain, if you try hard enough. But
what I did to you was more vital, more in the line of what I'm trying
to accomplish."

"What did you do to me?"

"Gave your quiet brain an electronic prod, and sent you right out
through a solid wall. You can send the body anywhere, if the quiet
brain is sufficiently stimulated. But that's just kindergarten stuff.
With the right kind of electronic hookup I'll have my big job solved.
I'm on the inside track now, thanks to you!"

Rush smiled. "Funny thing. When you wore that helmet your mind was open
to telepathic suggestion. I made you want to come out in front of the
animal cages. I implanted the thought in your mind. And that's where
you did come out. The elephant just happened to be in the way."

It was pure madness, of course. No man, not even a midget, could be
expected to take him seriously. But somehow I couldn't tear my eyes
from his face. I can usually tell when a man's lying. I'm sensitive to
the little facial quirks that mirror the mind's duplicity; I've trained
myself to be. There was nothing evasive about Rush.

"It was easier with a small body, of course," he said. "A powerful
mind acting on a small body can do more with it. It's curious, but
even animals have a quiet brain. Those marmosets taught me a lot--how
speech, intelligence, everything, really comes out of the quiet part.
The quiet brain is the real evolutionary mechanism across the ages.
It's stimulated by cosmic rays and it develops the brain you use, the
active, walnut-sized part."

He looked at me. "That's just a fascinating bypath, of course. My big
job just skirts it, and widens out into something more tremendous."

"What is--your big job?" I whispered.

I was taking him seriously now, despite myself. I felt bad though,
really physically ill.

"That can wait, Ralph," he said. "Until tomorrow, eh? You must be
tired. What you need is a little shut-eye."

"That's easy to say!" I choked. "You think I'll sleep?"

"Why not, Ralph? Life isn't any stranger than the things we dream
about. You've had quite a jolt tonight, but tomorrow you'll take it in
your stride."

I'd started to turn when he picked up the helmet. "No sense in taking
the town in your stride," he said. "It's a long trudge back to your
tent. A real Carny never walks when he can travel in style!"

Before I realized what he was about he was adjusting the helmet to
my head again.

"I'll bring your duds over first thing in the morning," I heard him
saying. "Think yourself back into your tent--"

His voice was drowned out by the hum of the circuit.

It was awful all over again. A spinning and a whirling--the floor
dissolving and the walls rushing off.

When the droning stopped I was back in my tent on the outskirts of the
town, my knees knocking together and my teeth chattering like chipmunks
in a haunted forest.

I didn't sleep a wink until the sun came up.

He was right, though. It didn't seem so terrifying in the bright
noonday glare, with the Midway filling up, and the bally talkers waving
their megaphones as though they really believed the ground to be solid,
the sky filled with little fleecy clouds.

There's always a lull before the worst of storms.

I was alone on the platform. Rush and the rest of the troupe were
inside rehearsing. The show wouldn't start for another hour, and I'd
walked out ahead of time to park myself on a nursery-sized chair on the
brink of the Midway.

I was sure that something terrible was going to happen.

You know the feeling. Everyone has it at times. It's worse in the
autumn, when the leaves coil up and blow away and the wind howls
through the bare trees. It's bad enough when it's just something vague
inside you that tells you the world is out of whack. But it's worse
when your head is under the chopping block.

Just by believing Rush and taking him seriously, I'd made myself a part
of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Yet it started quietly enough. I heard a faint coughing inside the big
canvas tent at my back, as though someone had stepped into a draft of
cold air and out again.

Then the coughing became a wheezing, a rumbling, and the platform began
to sway.

I leaped up in sick horror. The explosion was deafening. It seemed to
come from deep inside the tent, but it was more than just a blast of
sound. A cyclone accompanied it, and a screaming. When I swung about
there was a spiraling funnel of radiance pouring out of the tent
through a big rent in the canvas.

I could see straight into the tent through the radiance. It was weird,
mind-numbing. Like looking through a periscope poked into a furnace
filled with waltzing men and women.

Inside the tent people were whirling about like leaves in a blast
furnace. The fact that they were my kind of people made it all the more
nightmarish.

Then I saw Rush. He was sitting on the inside platform, staring down
at his palm. His big, bony hand looked like an upset spider, twining
its legs around a little metal disk. The disk was smoking but he didn't
seem to want to let go of it.

He was grimacing in an angry sort of way, as though he'd exploded a box
of matches by accident and was furious with himself.

I can't explain it, but I had a hunch he'd done just that--exploded the
disk by accident.

But suspecting that didn't lessen my terror. If you've never seen a
Carny show fill with smoke you can't know how terrifying it is. So many
things can happen to start a panic, and send innocent people to prison
for life.

Hysteria can twist the human brain, make it callous to grief. Children
can be trampled by men with children of their own, without a backward
glance. Even cowardice doesn't explain the utter demoralization that
can sweep people trapped in a burning tent.

I shut my eyes for a minute. I was afraid to look.

When I opened them someone had put the fire out by ripping down a flap
of canvas and stamping on it.

But everyone was staring at Rush. Shrieking, shouting, converging upon
him as though he'd tried to set fire to the universe. There was a
maniacal glint in the eyes of the troupe, as though they were going to
bypass the law and tear him limb from limb.

It was the old Carny dread of fire, mounting to a subconscious frenzy,
and fastening on Rush as the man responsible. The very fact that he was
slow in getting up weighed against him. It seemed to confirm his guilt.

Rush was slow in getting up, but not slow in streaking for the outside
platform. He swung himself up beside me in a long, impetuous leap,
grabbing a dangling rope and plunging out through the still smoking
tent flaps like a clockwork orang-utan.

"We've got to beat it, Ralph!" he shouted. "I can't explain it to them.
They wouldn't understand."

I started to shout at him that it was his own funeral pyre and I didn't
care how fiery it got. He could rot in the jug for all of me. I was
washing my hands of him then and there.

But then I saw the look on his face. He was pleading with me like a
stricken deaf mute, as though my loyalty had robbed him of the power
of speech and if I let him down now, he seemed to be saying, he'd go
somewhere where it was cold and dark, and hang himself to the nearest
tree.

At least a dozen witnesses saw me cook my own goose. By throwing in my
lot with him I was making myself an accessory. What had I to gain by
taking to my heels? It was pure madness!

We were both out of breath when we reached the village. "I just took
that midget beam-generator out of my pocket to toy with it, idly, as
you'd flip a key, or a coin!" he grunted. "The first thing I knew--"

"You toyed with it too hard, I suppose!"

"I'm afraid so, Ralph!" he admitted. "But no harm has been done. They
got the fire out and my big job is finished. There's nothing to keep us
here."

I had an answer ready for that one. If he wanted to hop a freight, it
was all right with me. But why did I keep silent? Why did I let him
think I was checking out too?

       *       *       *       *       *

When he spoke again we were almost at the door of his room.

"Everything's ready, Ralph!" he said. "I'm going to send you right out
on the mountain. I'll follow in a car. It's a long drive going through
the bleakest country east of the Great Smokies. When you get a glimpse
of it from the mountaintop you won't envy me the drive!"

"I didn't know you had a car," I said. Then I flared up. "If it's
_me_ you're talking to, you're not sending me anywhere! But I'd
like to know where you think you're sending me!"

He laughed. "You'll go, Ralph," he said. "Deep down you trust me, like
me."

That was too much for me. I tried to shrug it off, but inside me there
was a gnawing dread which got worse when we reached his room.

I had all I could do to keep from screaming when he picked up the
helmet again.

"Ralph, frankly, I'd rather not tell you until I get there myself," he
said. "How about it? Will you trust me?"

What could I say? I'd trusted him beyond reason already, but when the
noose is over your head there's not much sense in making a break for it.

The helmet didn't seem to make any sound at all this time. But maybe
the sound was drowned out by his voice, for he spoke very loudly.

"You'll find something there, Ralph--a big metal cylinder crumbling
into rust. But the heating apparatus still works. Just press the little
knob at the bottom of the big, circular panel you'll find in the middle
compartment."

There was a strange eagerness in his voice. "One thing more, Ralph.
Look in the--well, clothes-closet to you! You'll find a surprise!"

I heard the droning then. His voice grew fainter: "Relax now, Ralph.
This is the last trip you'll ever take on Earth. I'm implanting the
destination in your mind now. That's it--easy does it! Be seeing you in
about eight hours."

The whirling again.

When the droning fell away I was lying on my back staring up at the
sky. My clothes were gone again, and an icy wind was raising goose
pimples on my shoulders and chest.

I didn't stay on my back. I leaped up so fast the landscape went every
which way for a minute. Pinwheeled, blurred--ran away from me in a
bubbly streak.

Then it settled back into place and I was staring up at the bleakest
forested region I'd ever seen. There's a bald mountain in the
Adirondacks that's like a big bare skull set down between spruce trees
filled with black crows and a cawing that never stops.

But this mountaintop was twice as barren, twice as bleak. A gray-green
slaty barrenness that stretched to a circle of dark green firs as stark
as sentinel cranes standing guard over the ruins of a vanished race.

But there were no ruins that I could see. Just a waste of stone and
rubble, blackened here and there as though by fire, and made even
bleaker by chilling flurries of snow.

Luckily I didn't have to search for the cylinder. It was right there
before me, looming up against the firs, a big, half-buried mass of
yellow metal all crushed in on one side.

I walked around it in a kind of daze, telling myself I'd be crazy to
freeze to death, even though I was too desperate and frightened to care
much whether I lived or died.

I was a little afraid the cylinder might vanish when I touched it.
But it was solid enough, coated with hoar frost and so cold it sent a
tingling coursing through me.

When I reeled back and studied it, I saw that I could get inside. There
was a big circular opening at one end, covered by a metal flap. The
flap was heavy, and I wasn't strong enough to give it a vigorous heave.
So I simply wedged it up with my shoulders and crawled inside on my
hands and knees.

There was a suffocating deadness in the air I was breathing a few
minutes later. I could breathe the air, and I could see the panel,
looming up in the choking darkness. There was just enough light to see
by, but don't ask me where it came from.

       *       *       *       *       *

At least he hadn't lied. The heat came on just as he'd promised when I
pressed the right knob, and I found myself in a warm little compartment
with the cold shut out.

A half hour later I was still sitting there, wondering why he didn't
come. Then I remembered he'd said eight hours. I remembered something
else he'd said.

"Look in the clothes-closet, Ralph! You'll get a surprise!"

I got up and went stumbling around in the shadows.

It wasn't a closet, really--just a yard-high, yard-wide niche in the
metal wall. But there was a garment hanging there, on a metal peg.

I took the garment out. It had a musty smell, but it wasn't the smell
that brought a sudden catch to my throat.

It was a little one-piece suit, just my size!

My size!

For an instant I almost passed out from shock. Then I was laughing
wildly and pulling the garment on. It wasn't an ordinary suit such
as I'd shed under the helmet. It was a helmeted suit, but the helmet
was small and transparent, and could be pushed back, leaving my face
exposed.

It was bulky, too. A little like a diver's suit, with pleats in it, and
there were boots in the locker to go with it, and fuzzy mittens.

It fitted me like a wrinkled glove. Even the pleats and creases fitted
me, draped themselves to my body as if months of wear had molded the
suit to my way of walking and sitting.

The instant I had the suit on I went out on the mountaintop again, a
bursting wonder in my chest. When emotion's overwhelming that's where
you feel it, in the chest, like a warmth and a throbbing spreading out.

I went back after a moment, because a blizzard was coming up. But I
kept going out and back, stamping around in the snow, not minding the
cold at all now.

I was outside when I heard him coming up the mountaintop. He was
singing at the top of his lungs, as though he were coming home from a
journey in a far country and could hardly wait to share the wonder of
it.

Long before he came into view over the top of the crest, with the two
little metal cylinders under his arm, I knew who he really was.

He shouted and waved to me and I waved back.

He was out of breath when he reached my side.

"You've guessed, Ralph?" he said, stamping the snow from his shoes.

"Guessed?" I cried. "Brother, I know now, I remember!"

His eyes began to shine. "We had to buck an alien world, Ralph.
You remember that? With our ship a wreck, our hopes of getting
back blasted, we knew we'd have tough sledding. For you amnesia,
self-imposed. You had to stay sane while I tried to work something out."

"You've stayed sane too, brother!" I told him. "And now you've won
through? You can build a new ship?"

He looked at me. "I think so, Ralph. All those experiments paid off.
I've found out how to stimulate the quiet brain as it has never been
stimulated on Earth. Our quiet brains, Ralph. Simply by studying the
quiet brains of animals and a few humans. You were a great help to me,
because you have something which humans lack."

"My amnesia vanished when I found the suit!" I said. "Did you know it
would."

"I thought it might, Ralph!" he said.

"Ralph's not my real name, brother!" I said. "You know that."

"It's our human name, Ralph, and you felt and thought and acted like a
human for twelve years. I sort of got to like you all over again."

"It's all right, brother," I said. "Any name suits me the way I feel
now!"

"I'll still call you Ralph, then."

He showed me the two little cylinders then, and scratched his head,
just like a human mechanic, a grease monkey rolling up his sleeves. My
brother Rush! Only--Rush wasn't his real name either. He was my genetic
twin opposite. I was the small twin.

       *       *       *       *       *

He'd been good at electronics as a kid back where we came from. We
didn't call it electronics in our world, but the worlds aren't so
different, the people on them not so different either. In the deep,
pulsing core of the Great Nebula there are green, pleasant, warm little
worlds. One of those worlds was home to us.

"We won't need helmets," my brother said. "There's more of what it
takes in these cylinders. They're mass-building cylinders, polarized to
convert diffuse energy back into elementary matter, under the direction
of our quiet brains. We have a better than even chance of building a
ship as real as this mountaintop!"

"And we've a head start over humans," I said. "We know how to construct
a ship just like the one that was smashed up, down to the minutest
detail. We've a clairvoyant mind picture of it."

He was singing again when we drove the cylinders deep into the frozen
soil, two hundred feet apart, and stood back and let our quiet brains
soar.

The energizing flames darted out just as he'd known they would. Between
the cylinders, in great fluttering pinions, and our quiet brains built
a ship from the keystone of matter itself, from disintegrating stone
and the cosmic dust.

[Illustration: Our quiet brains built a ship from the keystone of
matter itself.]

Thought can do things to energy, to matter--not conscious thought, but
the kind of thought that shaped the Universe of Stars.

How can I describe it to you?

If you'd been there you'd have seen something like a bursting energy
shell first, then a banked mass of swirling light and the ship taking
shape under the light.

But how can I make you feel the breathtaking wonder of it? You've never
built a ship that way, a ship you'll be going home in, your ship!

You've never seen it grow from the inside out, with all the intricate
parts falling into place, the gleaming controls and the smooth
bulkheads, so neat and precise, and the great pulsing power drive
building itself up like a living thing.

I think I blinked more than I should, and my eyelids got wet, and froze
to my cheeks. You know how it is when you've done something tremendous
that shakes you to the depths. When you're through, you don't feel like
saying much. You just feel humble and very little, and the bigness of
the accomplishment takes away your breath.

So we just looked at each other, my brother and I, and then we looked
at the ship. My brother slung his big, loose-jointed arm around my
shoulder and we went inside.

I'm writing this now in the pilot jetty, a hundred billion miles from
Earth. I'm putting it all down just as it happened, before my human
memories dim.

I'm going home, see? And I might remember too much if I took it all
with me. How the earth looks after an April thaw, with the spring
peepers going full blast in woodland pools, and how the stars blaze
down on frosty nights.

Shucks, I even liked the Carny tents in the spring. The rioting colors
and the toy balloons and the whistling peanut carts.

Yeah! Well, writing about it helps to get rid of it. I don't want to
take it with me.

Near to me now, blazing bright, there's a pinwheeling rush of familiar
stars. Another star cluster and another--and another! After all, I am
going home, and in my book there's nothing better, nothing to compare
with that!

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GALACTIC HERITAGE ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
